# ideal-weight-calculator-using-java

Ideal Weight Calculator is a software application project built using JAVA programming language. The application GUI is built in NetBeans IDE 8.0.2. It makes use of JAVA Swing and other JAVA based concepts. The core area of use of the application is for Health and Fitness. By using this application the user can get useful information for maintaining a healthy body.

Working
 The application begins with a window displaying some options to be filled by user to calculate the ideal weight for the entered inputs. The user will enter age which should be greater than or equal to 18. In case an age less than 18 is entered, a warning message is displayed to tell the user to enter valid age. After that user can select his/her gender and then they can enter their height either in cm or feet or inches. After completing the form, the user is required to click on Calculate Button. This will calculate the ideal weight suggested for user and will display an ideal weight range for the user.  On proceeding further, the user will be prompted to enter his/her current weight in kgs. Then user is required to click on Compare button to compare his current weight and the ideal weight range suggested for him. On clicking Compare button, if the user’s weight lies within the ideal range, the application ends there. Else, if the user’s current weight lies outside the required ideal age it will display a dialog with a message for user displaying information regarding his/her current weight and the ideal range required. The user is required to click on Click here to get diet plan button in order to get a diet plan to achieve the suggested ideal weight. On clicking that button, a new window will appear displaying a recommended diet plan for the user. The diet plan contains information about the recommended exercises and diet required for the user to achieve the ideal weight suggested for him.  

Project Execution Guidelines
You will require NetBeans IDE(if possible, ver. 8.0.2). Then import the project into NetBeans and execute it using the Run option.
